# SQL-Retail-Data-Analysis
# Objective:
In this project, as a part of the retail store we would like to understand the customer behavior 
using their point of sale data(POS).

# Tools Used: 
MS SQL Server

# DataSet:
Data is provided in a Excel file. We have to import it in ms sql server.
The Data Set is comprises of 3 Tables:
1) Customer
2) Transactions
3) Product Category

# Summary:
Data Preparation and Understanding
1. Total number of rows in each of the 3 tables in the database
2. Total no. of transactions that have return
3. Converted date variables into valid date format
4. Time range of transaction data available for analysis
5. Product category where DIY subcategory belongs to

 Data analysis:
1. Most frequently channel used for transactions
2. Count of male and female cutomers in the database
3. City with maximum number of customers
4. Sub-categories under Book category
5. Maximum quantity of products ever ordered
6. Net total revenue generated in categories electronic and books
7. Customers having more than 10 transactions
8. Combined revenue earned from electronics and clothing from flagship stores
9. Revenue by prod sub-cat generated from Male customers in electronic category
10. Top 5 percentage of sales and return by product subcategory 
11. Net total revenue generated by the consumers aged between 25 to 35 years in last 30 days of transactions from max transactions date available in the data
12. Product category with max value of returns in the last 3 months of transactions
13. Store types sells the maximum products by value of sales amount and by quantity sold
14. Categories for which average revenue is above the overall average
15. Average and total revenue by each subcategory for the categories which are among top 5 categories in terms of quantity sold
